DIANE DALLIS-COMENTALE: Hello.
OK.
Just checking.
Welcome everyone.
Good afternoon.
I'm Diane Dallis-Comentale,
Ruth Lilly Dean of IU Libraries.
Indiana University
has championed
libraries and archives
of diverse collections
which have been
developed over centuries
by expert librarians,
researchers, archivists,
and curators.
As a librarian, I
have the privilege
of leading one of the
top research library
systems in North America.
My role requires me to
simultaneously consider
the past and the future, and
constantly keep those things
in the balance.
I ask that we pause
for a moment to think
about all that has
come before us,
and all those who made it
possible for us to be here,
together, today.
Indiana University was built
on Indigenous homelands
and resources.
With deep respect
and appreciation,
I acknowledge the Indigenous
nations' communities, families,
and especially those of the
Miami, Delaware, Potawatomi,
and Shawnee people.
The Foundation of our
state and our University
was built on unceded land
by indentured laborers,
immigrants, and many people
who endured and struggled
those whose names
and lives have often
been forgotten by history.
With this in mind, before
our program starts,
I hope that you consider the
opportunity and privilege we
all share in being here today.
All who have come
before us, all who
have made it possible
to be here today,
open to a conversation
across many generations
and with many new
ideas coming together.
This is a privilege
we share, and I really
appreciate your thoughts
about that as you go
through the rest of your day.
So on behalf of
our partners, I am
thrilled by your interest in
the significance of archives
and the role of the
national government.
It is an honor for IU to host
this discussion as we kick off
American Archives Month
as well as a month
celebrating archives of
the state of Indiana.
Thanks to a formal
proclamation by our governor.
Our partners for this gathering
are listed on the screen above.
Though, I am specifically
calling attention
to our friends at
the Luddy School
of Informatics Department
of Information and Library
Science, the Hamilton
Lugar School of Global
and International Studies,
and the Paul O'Neill
School of Public and
Environmental Affairs.
If you are here as part of
the fall 2023 Themester, Lux
et Veritas, you deserve
a special welcome.
Thank you to the College
of Arts and Sciences
for more than a
decade of engaged
learning through the exceptional
issues based Themester
teaching and programming.
It turns out that this
year's Themester theme, light
and truth, was quite
inspirational to my colleague
Dina Kellams, Director
of University Archives,
and the incredible team
of archivists she leads.
When they first began
discussing and planning
this year's activities,
they knew right away
that the person they
wanted to have come,
who could best
illustrate and illuminate
how important archives are,
is our former Archivist
of the United States,
David Ferriero.
In a moment I will
hand over the stage
to Sara Stefani one
of the IU Library's
many outstanding archivists,
who will be moderating
this discussion today.
Sara is the modical--
political-- modern--
I'm so sorry.
Modern Political Papers
Archivist and she
joined the IU Libraries
in 2018 to work
on the papers of the longtime
Indiana Senator, Richard Lugar.
Sara received her doctorate
from Yale University
in Slavic languages
and literature.
She oversees our collections
of papers from Congresswoman,
Jill Long Thompson, Senator
Birch Bayh, and Congressman Lee
Hamilton, among many others.
She is a member of the steering
committee of the Congressional
Papers Section of the
American Society of Archivist,
and the president of the
Association of Centers
for the Study of Congress.
Sarah will be leading the
question and answer session
with our distinguished
guest, David Ferriero, who
served as the 10th archivist
of the United States
from 2009 through April 2022.
President Barack Obama
nominated Mr Ferriero,
who was confirmed
by the US Senate
and sworn in November of 2020--
sorry, 2009.
As archivist, Mr Ferriero
oversaw the addition
of three new
presidential libraries
to the National Archives
and Records Administration
Presidential Library systems.
Before leading the
National Archives,
Mr Ferriero served as
Andrew W. Mellon, director
of New York Public Library.
He was part of the
leadership team
responsible for integrating the
four research libraries and 87
branches to create the
largest public library
system in the United States
and one of the largest research
libraries in the world.
Mr Ferriero served in
top leadership positions
in two of the nation's
highly ranked universities,
the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Duke
University in Durham, North
Carolina.
Mr Ferriero earned bachelor's
degrees and master's degrees
in English Literature from
Northeastern University
in Boston and a master's degree
from Simmons College of Library
and Information
Science in Boston.
Mr Ferriero also served as
a Navy hospital corpsman
during the Vietnam War.
Before we jump into
the Q&A our moderator,
Sara Stefani has a
few details regarding
audience participation.
And I'm going to
hand things over
to Sarah's very capable hands.
And I sincerely
appreciate all of you
being in attendance today.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
SARA STEFANI: Hello, everyone.
I want to thank everyone
for coming today.
As Diane mentioned,
this is a celebration
of National Archives Month.
And also, this particular month
of October 2023, Governor Eric
Holcomb has decreed as
Indiana Archives Month.
So of course, there's
no better person
to have come to
talk about archives
than David Ferriero, the 10th
archivist of the United States.
And as far as audience
participation goes,
we will have a sing
along a little bit later.
No I'm just kidding.
So essentially, what we
plan to do today is David
and I will have a Q&A
session of our own
but possibly even
just a conversation.
I mean, we kind of hope
that this will be a--
DAVID FERRIERO: Loose.
SARA STEFANI: A
loose conversation
that's of benefit to everybody.
But also there are
pre-selected or-- sorry,
pre-submitted questions.
I think most of you who RSVP'd--
or all of you who are RSVP'd--
received a link to potentially
submit questions ahead of time.
If you didn't submit any
questions, that's fine.
You may not have had any.
But during the course
of our conversation
questions may arise.
And this is why I
think all of you
have a note card and
a writing utensil.
And so please feel free to
write down any questions
that you may have.
And at approximately 4:45--
so maybe in about
a half an hour--
my colleagues at the
University Archives,
Dina Kellams and Carrie
Schweer, will come by
and collect your note cards.
And then I will hand the
floor over to your questions,
meaning that I'll take the
cards and read them all out.
So we will have your
input and the things
that interest you all.
So with that, I
guess we will start.
Actually, my first
question is unplanned
because it's
something that I just
learned right at the beginning
of this event, which is--
David, would you
like to tell us.
So as soon as you
came into the room,
you recognized these murals.
And you asked, are these
Thomas Hart Benton?
And why did you ask that?
What prompted you?
DAVID FERRIERO: Because
I recognized his style.
And a wonderful story about
Harry S. Truman Presidential
Library, where we have
a Thomas Hart Benton.
And Benton painted it while
Harry was still alive.
And we have
wonderful photographs
in the Library of Benton
on a ladder painting
next to Harry Truman on the
ladder painting a cloud.
[LAUGHTER]
And we also have wonderful
photographs of Benton,
after Harry left, painting
over what Harry did.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: So
essentially erasing history.
DAVID FERRIERO: It's underneath.
It's underneath.
It's still there.
SARA STEFANI: So my first
question, essentially,
was to ask you about being
the archivist of the United
States, which later
I'm going to follow up
to ask you to explain to the
audience what a Presidential
Library is.
But first let me ask you--
just for our general crowd--
can you explain a
little bit of what
does it mean to be the
archivist of the United States?
DAVID FERRIERO: A lot of
things that they didn't tell me
during the interview process.
SARA STEFANI: Right.
Or in library
school, I'm assuming.
DAVID FERRIERO: Forget that.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah, forget that.
[LAUGHS]
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah.
Right.
The Archivist of
the United States
is responsible for overseeing
the creation, management,
and access to the
records created
by the federal government.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
DAVID FERRIERO: To follow a
prescribed set of laws, Federal
Records Act,
Presidential Records
Act, that kind of lay
down the law about how
things should work.
And provide access to the papers
of the government in order
for the American people
to hold their government
accountable for its actions
and to learn from our past.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
So how does one become the
Archivist of the United States.
DAVID FERRIERO: Well there was
this ad in the New York Times.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: I was going
to say, I'm an archivist
and I want to be the Archivist
of the United States someday.
So.
Yeah, do I check Indeed or?
DAVID FERRIERO: It
was very strange.
I was at the New
York Public Library
and what looks like a very
cushy job from this perspective.
I had a wonderful
office on Fifth Avenue
with a lion outside my window.
SARA STEFANI: Ooh.
DAVID FERRIERO: And a Friday
afternoon in April of whatever,
2009.
My assistant came in
and said the White
House is on the phone.
So I got on the phone.
SARA STEFANI: Was it April 1?
DAVID FERRIERO: No, it wasn't.
[SUBDUED LAUGHTER]
It was around Patriots Day.
So it was like the
middle of the month.
So I got on the phone, Hello.
And this 12-year-old, who
was working on appointments
for the president, said--
I guess I wasn't enthusiastic
enough because he said--
aren't you surprised to be
getting a call from the White
House?
[LAUGHTER]
Ah.
So we moved beyond
that, and he said
that, I'm calling
because we're looking
at for the position of
archivist of the United States.
So this is a
presidential appointment.
And my sense of things
at that point-- and even
now-- is that presidential
appointments are usually
someone who gave a lot of
money to the campaign that
elected the president, or is
a friend of the president,
but doesn't know anything
about the business
of that particular position.
So why on Earth are
you calling me--
[LAUGHTER]
--who knows the
business and doesn't
meet those other criteria?
So he couldn't answer that.
SARA STEFANI: Did you
actually ask him that?
DAVID FERRIERO: No.
[LAUGHTER]
I said, I'm very
flattered, but you're
looking at the wrong
person and made it clear
that this was the end
of the conversation.
And he said, well,
would you think about it
over the weekend, and
we'll talk again on Monday.
And I said, sure.
So he called Monday morning.
And we had the
same conversation.
And 10 minutes later
an adult called.
The poor kid, Kyle Watkins, was
an undergraduate at Georgetown
working on appointments.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
DAVID FERRIERO: He
wasn't in charge,
but he was the one who did
the research that found me.
SARA STEFANI: Oh-ho.
DAVID FERRIERO: So
he got the honor
of calling me to tell me all
this, and I treated him poorly.
[LAUGHTER]
So 10 minutes later
an adult called
and asked if he could
come to New York
and talk to me about the job.
And that week Tom
Wheeler, who turned out
to be the director
of the FCC later,
came and talked about what
the president was looking
for in the new archivist, and
how important the archives was
going to be in the
administration's
open government initiative.
And the more he talked,
the more excited
I got about the potential.
And knowing that I
know the business,
I was responsible for archives
at MIT, and Duke, and the New
York Public Library.
So it's not as if I
didn't know the business.
SARA STEFANI: Right,
because people
have pointed out that
you're the first librarian.
DAVID FERRIERO:
Very controversial.
Let me tell you,
very controversial.
SARA STEFANI: For those of you
who aren't in the business--
DAVID FERRIERO: Oh my god.
SARA STEFANI: It actually
is kind of controversial.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah there's
a woman named Harriet--
who I'm still looking for-- when
my nomination was announced,
who said on some listserv--
I can't remember which one it
was-- he's only a librarian.
SARA STEFANI: Ooh.
[LAUGHTER]
Welcome to the IU
libraries, everyone.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID FERRIERO: But there
has been, historically,
a lot of, I wouldn't
say tension,
but difference among the
librarians and archivists.
It's the same business, please.
It's the same business.
Collect, protect, encourage
the use of, fill in the blank.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
So you were nominated
for the position
by President Barack Obama.
DAVID FERRIERO: Exactly.
SARA STEFANI: But you served
under President Obama,
President Trump, and
then President Biden.
So you've kind of--
DAVID FERRIERO: It's a
lifetime appointment.
There is no term for the
archivists in the United
States.
So at the end of
an administration
there are 4,000
presidential appointments.
And at the end of
an administration
4,000 people leave.
And so if you have a
presidential appointment,
you get a notice from
the incoming president
asking you to submit
your resignation,
except the archivist
doesn't get that notice.
SARA STEFANI: Oh, well,
that's a job perk.
DAVID FERRIERO: Right.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: So one
of the huge challenges
for the National
Archives is to ensure
that those 4,000
people who are leaving
are leaving their
records behind.
SARA STEFANI: Right.
DAVID FERRIERO: And
more challenging
is to ensure that those
4,000 people coming in
know what the rules are.
SARA STEFANI: Right.
Yeah.
So you kind of touched
on this a little bit,
but you were nominated in--
I think it was July
of 2009, correct?
And you were confirmed-- so
all presidential appointments
have to be vetted by the
United States Senate.
There are confirmation hearings.
Some of you might have
watched them on CNN or c-span.
So everyone has to go
through the whole grilling
process of having a hearing.
DAVID FERRIERO: Very Invasive.
SARA STEFANI: Right, and
so you were actually--
I think that you were
nominated in July of 2009
and then confirmed in November.
DAVID FERRIERO: November
SARA STEFANI: So essentially
three months later.
DAVID FERRIERO: Right
SARA STEFANI: The current
Archivist of the United States
was nominated in, I
think, August of 2022
and wasn't confirmed
until May of 2023.
So it took nine months
to get her confirmed.
So what is that process like?
What is it like to be nominated
and go through that kind of--
DAVID FERRIERO: As I
said, it's very invasive.
So when Tom left
my office, he said,
would you come to Washington
and talk some more?
And that's when I met
with the full committee
at the White House and
talked about the job.
And as I was leaving
the room, David Jacobson
who was the head of that--
Who was Kyle's boss said, so can
we consider you our candidate.
And I said, yes.
And at that point
it was locked down.
I couldn't talk to
anyone except my wife
about what was going on.
And that launched an
investigative process.
FBI agents spread out
across the country talking
to anyone I ever had known.
And I kept getting these emails
from folks, friends saying,
what the hell is going on?
The FBI is at my door.
SARA STEFANI: Oh no.
That is not what
you want to hear.
DAVID FERRIERO:
All they can tell
me is that it's not a
criminal investigation.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
Thanks, yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: So I
passed those tests.
And then the next
phase is you have
to meet with every member
of the Senate Committee
that's voting on you.
So a White House
shepherd and I visited
each member of the committee.
And my favorite visit was
with an unnamed Senator who
asked me the killer question.
SARA STEFANI: Which state?
DAVID FERRIERO: I'm not even
going to mention the state.
SARA STEFANI: I'm just kidding.
[LAUGHS]
DAVID FERRIERO: They asked
me the killer question,
so why is it that you want to
be the architect of the United
States?
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
And you said, because I
like domes and columns.
DAVID FERRIERO: No, I
pretended he said archivist
and I talked about his
records, his papers.
And as we were leaving, the
shepherd turned to me and said,
did he say architect?
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: Because there is
an archivist-- or architect.
DAVID FERRIERO: Of the Capitol.
SARA STEFANI: Of the Capitol.
Right, so.
DAVID FERRIERO: Not architect
of the United States.
SARA STEFANI: No,no,no.
No architect of
the United States.
So.
DAVID FERRIERO: So
then as a hearing.
And I think I'm
the last person who
had a swift appointment and
then a vote by the full Senate.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
You know, because--
DAVID FERRIERO: But as
you've seen recently,
any member of the Senate could
put a hold on a nomination.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah
DAVID FERRIERO: And Lamar
Alexander of Tennessee
put a hold on my nomination.
SARA STEFANI: Really?
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah.
The White House
couldn't figure out--
nobody could figure out
what the problem was.
So they sent me to meet with
Lamar, who was very embarrassed
that he had put a hold on it.
But it turns out that
one of his constituents
reported that the director
of the Nixon Library
was saying some pretty
anti-Nixon things,
and he thought I
should know about that.
And once he got
that off the table,
then we had a wonderful
conversation about his--
he used to be a president of
the University of Tennessee.
So we talked about
higher education.
He really embarrassed
because his wife, Honey,
was on the National
Archives Foundation board.
SARA STEFANI: Ooh-ho-ho.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID FERRIERO: So she
wasn't happy about him
putting a hold on it.
So as soon as I left the
office, they lifted the hold.
And I think it was the last
unanimous vote on a nomination.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Because, like I said, the
current Archivist of the United
States, it was very con--
Not, I think, because of her.
But--
DAVID FERRIERO: No,
it's the dysfunction
of the Hill in terms of
the non-partisan approach
to everything.
SARA STEFANI: Right.
So just to clarify for everyone.
So you essentially
are the director
and the head of the
National Archives, right.
Technically the National
Archives and Records
Administration.
And I kind of, and
correct me if I'm wrong,
but I think part
of the reason why
there is such an invasive
process for vetting
the potential Archivist
of the United States,
and sending the FBI, and finding
out everything from everyone
who ever knew you is because
you have access to some really
important documents.
No is this not--
DAVID FERRIERO: The
process is the same
for any presidential
appointment.
SARA STEFANI: Oh, Yeah.
Well no, I know that.
But I guess it's
this idea that they
don't want anyone, any
presidential appointment,
to be in a position
to be blackmailed--
DAVID FERRIERO: Oh yeah, sure.
SARA STEFANI: --or to
have something over you,
or be able to leak documents,
or do anything like this.
And in your case, with
the National Archives,
this is the home of
all of the founding
documents of this country.
The Declaration of
Independence is there.
The US Constitution.
The Bill of Rights.
And they're on display.
They're just in this
wonderful display area.
When I visited
several years ago,
there were a lot of school kids.
It was a very popular
school kid destination.
I actually read that you
wanted to do sleepovers.
DAVID FERRIERO:
We did sleepovers.
SARA STEFANI: Did you do
sleepovers in the rotunda?
Was it just for school kids, or
were adults part of this too?
DAVID FERRIERO:
Twice a year we did,
for kids 8 to 12 years old.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
DAVID FERRIERO: They had
to come with an adult.
And we were limited
to, I think, 80 people.
We started on a
Saturday night evening.
We had a whole evening full
of activities for them,
scavenger hunts, and
movies, and snacks, and--
SARA STEFANI: Not peanut butter
and jelly sandwiches, though.
Near the--
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah, we
had a special area for food.
Not in the rotunda--
SARA STEFANI: Not with
the Declaration of--
OK.
DAVID FERRIERO: No.
And they brought sleeping
bags and stuff to sleep.
And lights out at 11 o'clock.
And they slept on the
floor of the rotunda
in the presence of the charters.
SARA STEFANI: Wow.
DAVID FERRIERO: And
on Sunday morning,
we did a pancake breakfast.
I flipped pancakes.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah,
it was a lot of fun.
SARA STEFANI: Oh, that's so--
And the way I
understand it is, that
was part of a very important
initiative to you, which
was to make the collections
of the National Archives
accessible to people.
And invite the public in
and kind of break down
that barrier.
So was that a part of that?
DAVID FERRIERO: It was a
piece of the open government
initiative where we
were trying to make
each agency more
user responsive,
more reflective of the--
to break down those walls.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
And so the National
Archives, like I said,
has these founding documents
of the country in it.
And it has things like the
Emancipation Proclamation
and the Treaty of the
Louisiana Purchase.
DAVID FERRIERO: My favorite.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah,
but there's also over--
approximately-- 13 billion other
analog materials, photographs,
documents, maps.
DAVID FERRIERO: No that
doesn't include photographs.
There are 43
million photographs.
SARA STEFANI: 43,
well, 43 million.
I did the math.
That's 13.8 billion.
Oh, 43 million photographs?
DAVID FERRIERO: I used to
scare the staff when I said,
we should be doing an inventory.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
I will try to ignore that.
And then over 33 billion
electronic records
and counting.
I assume, right?
DAVID FERRIERO: Where
did you get that figure?
SARA STEFANI: Off
of your website.
DAVID FERRIERO: Not 33 billion.
SARA STEFANI: 33
billion with a b.
DAVID FERRIERO: No.
SARA STEFANI: Billion.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
Well then the website
needs to be updated.
DAVID FERRIERO: I
guess it's wrong.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: It's like six
billion electronic records.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
Well, the website is wrong.
DAVID FERRIERO: OK.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
So.
DAVID FERRIERO: Not
my problem anymore.
SARA STEFANI: Right, exactly.
Not your problem anymore.
So what else?
I mean, what are some
of your favorite things.
Like, what other
collections are there
besides federal records,
and Presidential Records,
and official records,
but what else is there?
DAVID FERRIERO: A
couple of things.
One of one of my favorite
parts of the collection
are the treaties that we
signed with Native nations.
So there are 375 of them which
have been digitized and are now
up and available on our website.
They're the saddest documents,
I think, in our collection.
Because they spell
out everything
that we promised to the
Indians while we grabbed
their land and their water.
And visited frequently by
tribal elders and tribal lawyers
who are working on federal cases
on land reuse and water rights.
So that's one piece
of the collection.
But there's another
piece too that I would
put in the favorite category.
When I became the
archivist and met
with the directors of the
Presidential Libraries
for the first time, they
went around the room
and introduced themselves.
And the director of
the Kennedy handed me
a copy of a letter that a
kid wrote to the president,
asking for information about
the proposed Peace Corps.
It's a letter from me.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: Two weeks
later, the Eisenhower
called to say they had
found two letters from me
to President Eisenhower.
And when I was at the
LBJ, they handed me
a copy of the letter that I
sent to LBJ, congratulating him
for signing the
Civil Rights Act.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
This actually--
DAVID FERRIERO:
Those are records,
presidential correspondence.
SARA STEFANI: Actually,
so recently, I
received an email from
somebody you have met before.
He's an educator who
lives in North Carolina.
And his advice to me was,
when you talk to David,
you might ask him about
some of the artifacts he
had in his office,
including a letter
he wrote to LBJ and perhaps--
DAVID FERRIERO: Facsimiles.
SARA STEFANI:
Facsimiles, for sure.
For sure.
But I thought this was a great--
that these letters
were from you.
And you found them
in the archives,
which struck me
because, essentially,
we, as citizens,
are in the archives.
It is not just for
Presidential Records
and of course, it is for that.
But we're all in
it, essentially.
DAVID FERRIERO: One of the
activities for the sleepover
is kids get an
opportunity to write
a letter to the president.
And we deliver them.
On Monday morning we deliver
them to the White House,
and President Obama responded.
SARA STEFANI: Awe.
That reminds me
actually of, in 2018,
when I had an
opportunity to visit
Richard Lugar at
his office, and I
had my picture taken with him.
And in the mail I
got a signed copy.
And I said, do I
have to archive this?
Like, I have this picture.
DAVID FERRIERO: [LAUGHS]
SARA STEFANI: But
I've also read things,
where for instance, the
National Archives has veterans
records and military records.
And you, yourself,
are a veteran, right.
And there were several blog
posts about the 1950 census
which was recently
released, and people
who found their relatives
online, or found
their parents in the census.
So essentially, again, we're
all in the National Archives.
DAVID FERRIERO: Exactly.
So when I visited Saint Louis,
where our military records are,
there's a special vault
for high-end veterans.
Records that we want make
sure we want to make sure
aren't tampered or messed up.
Not that there's a
lot of that goes on.
But the VIP vaults.
So they took me on a
tour of the VIP vault
and handed me Elvis's
service record.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
And was it?
Oh Yeah, so I think
that recently--
and I want to see if
this is still true--
but recently we watched a
program from the New York
Historical Society
that was an interview
with the current Archivist
of the United States, Colleen
Shogan.
And she was asked
the question of what
is the most requested
and popular item.
And she said it was
the photograph of Elvis
with President Richard Nixon.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yes.
SARA STEFANI: Is that?
DAVID FERRIERO:
It's a great story.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah?
DAVID FERRIERO: You
want to hear it?
SARA STEFANI: Absolutely.
DAVID FERRIERO: OK.
SARA STEFANI: Do
you want to hear it?
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID FERRIERO: So
Elvis collected badges.
And he had badges from
all over the country.
And the one that he really
wanted was an FBI badge,
and the FBI refused
to give him a badge.
So he took it upon himself
to fly from Los Angeles--
he was on the West Coast.
He flew to Washington
on American Airlines
because he asked the flight
attendant for stationery
to write a letter
to President Nixon,
asking to meet with him
because he wanted to volunteer
for his war on drugs.
Nothing about badges.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
DAVID FERRIERO: And he and he
got into a cab at the airport
and got delivered
to the West Wing
gate, where he handed the
letter in, which you can't do.
They won't accept anything.
So don't try and leave a letter
at the gate at the White House.
And it ended up in Bud Krogh--
Bud Krogh, who
was chief of Staff
to President Nixon
and a huge Elvis fan.
It ended up in his hands.
And sure enough, Elvis was
invited, that afternoon,
to come and to visit
with the president.
Bud did a program with us.
And if you google Bud Krogh
Elvis National Archives,
you can watch this
wonderful conversation
with Bud telling
the story of Nixon
not really knowing
who Elvis was.
And do I really have
to meet with him?
And all of this.
There wasn't any conversation
about drugs or anything
in this one on one
with the president,
but he got to the point
where he wanted a badge.
He really wanted an FBI badge,
so he asked Nixon for it.
And Nixon turned to Bud
and said, can I do that?
And Bud Krogh says,
of course you can.
You're the president.
So guess what?
SARA STEFANI: Did he
get the FBI badge?
DAVID FERRIERO: He
got the FBI badge.
And then Bud tells
the story of--
this is true of every president.
The resolute desk
has a bottom drawer
full of gifts that the
president gives to visitors
and they're arranged
in priority order,
for the cheap stuff at the front
and the really expensive stuff
at the back.
So Nixon said to Elvis, I
want to give you a gift.
So Elvis got up out of
his chair and went around
the back of the desk instead
of waiting for the president.
And he goes and pulls up--
I forget what he pulled
out-- but went right
to the back of the
drawer and pulled out
the most expensive stuff.
SARA STEFANI: The good stuff.
Yeah.
[LAUGHS]
DAVID FERRIERO: So we have the
letter in the Nixon Library.
We have the letter that Elvis
wrote and wonderful pictures.
And the picture is on shower
curtains, coffee mugs.
It's on T-shirts, sweatshirts.
It's on everything.
SARA STEFANI: And so
along those lines,
where do Presidential records
and Presidential papers
fit in to all of this?
DAVID FERRIERO: As of 1978,
because President Nixon
considered his papers
private, not public--
and the whole Watergate thing--
Congress decided we need
to codify this and make
it clear that Presidential
records are public records.
So they belong to the
federal government.
And the way it
works is the records
are maintained in
the White House
during the administration.
And it isn't until
the inauguration
of the new president,
during that ceremony,
that the records are transferred
to the National Archives.
They stay in the White
House until then.
SARA STEFANI: So you kind of
touched on it a little bit
about the personal ownership
versus the public ownership,
because for centuries--
I mean 1 and 1/2
centuries, 150 years--
Presidential papers were
considered personal property.
DAVID FERRIERO: And they're
scattered all over the country.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: Library of
Congress has a lot of them.
But it wasn't until
FDR, actually,
who had the first
Presidential Library.
I'm convinced that FDR
was a closet archivist,
because he really paid--
SARA STEFANI: There are a lot
of them out there, actually.
DAVID FERRIERO: I know it.
He really paid attention
to organization.
And he actually-- you probably
don't know this-- but,
you archivists, he created
the prototype phase box
that you now store
your records in.
SARA STEFANI: Really?
DAVID FERRIERO: It
wasn't with acid free--
SARA STEFANI: The archivists
are really excited about this.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID FERRIERO: It wasn't with
acid free paper or anything,
but it's the same box.
SARA STEFANI: I read
an interesting thing.
So I want to touch on this issue
of the Presidential Libraries,
because you mentioned
it with Truman.
And you've talked
about a little bit.
But a little tidbit that
I found out about FDR,
so Franklin Roosevelt
was the first president
to start a Presidential
Library, right.
So it's to look at
everything and say, Wow, I've
got a lot of cool stuff.
I should make it accessible
to the American people.
And so he established
a library and a museum.
And he had tons of gifts,
and memorabilia, and chairs,
and I don't know what.
And the archivist who was
working with him said, do you
really need all of this?
Do you really want to put
all of this in the museum?
And he said, if people
are going to pay a quarter
to come to this library,
they need to see some stuff.
They're paying a quarter.
But could you talk a little
bit about what a Presidential
Library is versus the
Presidential Records
that go into the
National Archives
and what that system looks like.
DAVID FERRIERO:
It's a combination.
It's artifacts and records.
So state gifts and lots of
gifts from the American public
all become part of-- those
are considered records--
and become part of the museum
aspect of the Presidential
Library.
We have a wonderful--
the largest collection of
macaroni paintings in the world
are in our
Presidential Libraries.
We have every shoe that
Hillary Clinton ever wore.
[LAUGHTER]
We have a lot of First
Lady [LAUGHS] wardrobes.
And Hillary Clinton is still
delivering shoes to the Clinton
Presidential Library.
Very strange collections.
SARA STEFANI: But the
public can visit them.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yes.
SARA STEFANI: And
they have exhibitions.
DAVID FERRIERO: Exactly.
SARA STEFANI: And you
can see the shoes.
Can you try them on though?
DAVID FERRIERO: No.
After I had done my
first tour of all
the Presidential Libraries
and seen all of these,
I started putting
things together
and threatened to do a first
lady shoe exhibit from--
DIANE DALLIS-COMENTALE: I
think the Met did an exhibit
on first lady dresses.
So I don't know why
you wouldn't do shoes.
DAVID FERRIERO: We
could do that too.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah,
we could do that too.
SARA STEFANI: So one of the
things that you also mentioned,
that is in the
event description,
that I do want to talk about is
the theme for IU's Themester.
This last Themester is
Lux et Veritas, right,
which translates
into light and truth.
It's also actually part of
the motto on the official seal
of Indiana University.
And I know that when
my colleagues first
had this idea of celebrating
this last Themester
and inviting you, they had this
really nice idea of shining
the light of truth onto records,
and history, and archives,
and things along those lines.
And you've talked
about open government
and the open government system.
Can you talk a little
bit of what that means.
What does open government
mean, and why is it important?
Why is it an
important principle?
DAVID FERRIERO: So in the Obama
language for open government,
it was transparency,
participation,
and collaboration.
Those are the three linchpins
of what open government means.
And for the National
Archives, we
tried hard to figure
out ways that we
could fulfill that vision.
So on his first day in
office, the president
met with his senior staff
and made the statement
that the government doesn't
have all the answers,
and we need to figure out ways
to engage the American public
in doing our work.
So we took that very seriously
at the National Archives
and worked on and
thought about ways
that we could engage
the public in the work
that we do, which resulted in
the creation of the Citizen
Archivist project, where we have
opportunities for the public
to help us, in a number of ways,
in making access to our records
better.
So, as you probably
know, cursive
isn't taught much
in schools anymore.
And about 80% of the Federal
Records are in cursive.
So we have kids now,
and their parents
in lots of cases, who
can't read these records.
And in fact, I was
talking to a couple
of adults last night who
couldn't read records,
couldn't read cursive.
SARA STEFANI: Or even
from the 19th century,
even if you can read cursive,
it's a different kind
and it's--
DAVID FERRIERO: Don't
give me any excuses.
SARA STEFANI: OK, all right.
[LAUGHTER]
I take that back.
DAVID FERRIERO: So we
have loaded thousands
of records in the Citizen
Archivist Dashboard
and you can go in and
transcribe for us.
And we've got folks
from, actually,
around the world who are
participating in this.
And to date, we have I think
the figure is something
like 250 million transcriptions
have been done of our records.
SARA STEFANI: And this is just,
when you say Citizen Archivist,
this is just people,
just the public.
Well, I mean, these are not
necessarily employees of NARA.
DAVID FERRIERO: There's
a wonderful nursing
home in Massachusetts that
has adopted this project.
And they do they
do transcriptions.
SARA STEFANI: So this
is for anyone who's
interested in getting involved.
Is it still going?
Can people still get in--
DAVID FERRIERO: Oh Yeah
SARA STEFANI: How they get
involved in the project?
DAVID FERRIERO: Archives.gov
SARA STEFANI: Archives.gov OK.
Do you do crowdsourcing
like, with photographs?
DAVID FERRIERO: Oh
yeah, we do that.
Yeah.
There are several
different options.
You can do transcriptions.
You can tag photos.
As I said, we have 43
million photographs
and not very well described.
So we've loaded
thousands of photographs
where people are tagging people
that they recognize, or places
if they recognize, or whatever
information they might
have about the photograph.
SARA STEFANI: So what
is the result of this.
How many people have been
involved as Citizen Archivists.
And has NARA been
pleased with the results?
DAVID FERRIERO: The
results have been--
SARA STEFANI: How's the quality?
DAVID FERRIERO: I can't
give you numbers of people.
But we've been very
pleased with the quality
of the transcriptions
and each one
is checked to make sure
that it's accurate.
Another way that we've focused
on-- this came up in my meeting
with the students today.
Every attempt is to make our
content accessible in any way
we possibly can.
So we've devoted a lot of work,
time, and effort on Wikipedia.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah
DAVID FERRIERO: Hired the first
federal Wikipedian in residence
was part of the
National Archives staff,
who had the dual role of
helping us create those links
but also educating the staff
about the power of Wikipedia.
So now our processing
folks link record groups
to articles in Wikipedia.
And there are probably
in the neighborhood
of 4,000 to 5,000
Wikipedia records that
have content that have links
from the National Archives.
And we get three billion hits a
year from those Wikipedia hits.
SARA STEFANI: Well,
and also, you also
initiated a huge social
media initiative as well.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah.
When I was coming to
Washington for one
of those meetings on the Hill
with the Senate Committee.
I'm not even the archivist yet,
but I'm reading the New York
Times and there's this article
about the White House letting
an RFP with help on
their social media.
Archiving.
Archiving social media.
SARA STEFANI: Oh,
archiving social media.
DAVID FERRIERO: And I'm saying
to myself, oh wait a minute.
Where's the National Archives?
Why aren't they all over this?
And it turns out that the
National Archives wasn't doing
anything with social media.
And this is 2009.
And I discovered that there
was a small group of folks
who were interested
in social media
and were meeting in secret
to talk about their dreams
about how they might
use social media.
And I heard about
this, and I walked
into one of their meetings.
And they thought
they were busted.
[LAUGHTER]
And we sat down and had
a great conversation.
And at that meeting I
authorized the purchase
of iPads and iPhones,
25 to fool around.
And let's get started here.
And the next morning I got a
call from my CIO, who said,
I understand you want
iPads and iPhones.
And I said, Yeah,
isn't it exciting.
We're going to experiment
and blah, blah, blah.
And she said, well, you know, we
don't support that technology.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
IPads and iPhones?
DAVID FERRIERO: Then
I said, you know,
the best part about
this technology
is it doesn't need your support.
[LAUGHTER]
And the next call I got
was from acquisitions,
I understand you want
iPhones and iPads.
I say, isn't it exciting.
We're going to be experimenting.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: I like this.
Just keep repeating it.
Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO:
That'll take 13 months.
13 months.
I said, no, that's
not good enough.
Uh-Uh, that doesn't work for me.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: I
actually had a student--
I hope she's here today, but--
contact me yesterday
from the IDS
with the Indiana Daily Student,
which is a student newspaper.
And she asked me a really
interesting question.
She asked me what I found
most interesting or inspiring
about you.
And I have to say that
my answer was actually
the "Gighy" or
"Jiphy," depending
on how you pronounce it, the
Giphy Channel for the National
Archives.
Because I checked it out.
It's amazing.
There are 1,500 JIFs
or GIFs, depending
on your preference,
that have been uploaded
and over 5.3 billion views.
Billion.
And it's amazing because there
are things from World War One,
World War Two, but
also space exploration,
and the Apollo 11 mission,
and civil rights movement,
and women's suffrage.
But also kids
sledding, and holidays,
and my favorite, which is
the dancing dogs, Waffles
and Dempsey--
[LAUGHTER]
--who are wearing little tutus.
And what I said
was that, to me it
is making the federal government
and the National Archives
more accessible.
And it is saying to
people, everyone's welcome.
We're not just this imposing
building on Pennsylvania Avenue
but we're you.
We're About you.
So is this kind of
something that you felt--
how do you feel that this
helped with NARA's image?
DAVID FERRIERO: First of
all, it was unleashing
the talent within the
Agency that these folks have
been dreaming about things
to do with social media.
As I said, in 2009 we were not
on any social media platforms.
And the argument I
made with the staff
was, we are responsible
for providing
guidance to the agencies
about the records
implications of their
use of social media.
And if we're not using
this stuff ourselves,
how are we possibly
going to do that?
So we're now on 16 platforms
and the staff is energized,
and it has spread
to State Archives
and other archives have been
following what we're doing.
SARA STEFANI: Well,
and I noticed--
and we'll start
with the questions--
but I also noticed that the
Trump Presidential Library
has an archive of his tweets.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yes, of course.
SARA STEFANI: So social
media is actually
an important social
phenomenon that
is woven into the nation's
history and the Presidential
Records.
All right, so now we will
turn to y'all's questions.
So the first one for you
is, while we narrowly
avoided a government shutdown,
you saw the National Archives
through a few shutdowns.
How did these impact the work
of NARA, short and long term?
DAVID FERRIERO: It's
a horrible situation
because we have no idea how long
the shutdown is going to last.
That the staff by and large--
we have, for the National
Archives it's 3,000 people
in 42 facilities in 17 states--
most of them live
paycheck to paycheck.
They're not getting paid,
and they have no idea
how long this is going to last.
For the longer ones, and we've
been through some longer ones,
people have actually left
and taken other jobs.
But the damage it
does to people feeling
good about working for the
government and the damage
it does in recruiting
is really serious.
SARA STEFANI: We talked
about this this morning
because my mother
actually worked
for the federal government for
the Department of Agriculture.
And she had to live
through several shutdowns
as a single mother.
And so I've
experienced this, so.
Yeah.
What you're saying about
tarnishing kind of work--
anyway, all right.
Next question,
[LAUGHTER]
My students are currently
reading and thinking
about archives.
It's a history gateway
course but they
are deeply concerned about
access to historical materials.
What was your role in getting
materials into the archives
from various departments
of the government?
DAVID FERRIERO: So way
back at the beginning,
when FDR signed the legislation
and created the National
Archives, he really
took-- as you
know I made that crack about
him being a closet archivist.
But he really took an
interest in the archives,
recruited the first
archivist, and made
sure that archivist got what
he needed in terms of support.
And that first archivist had
the job of wandering around town
and figuring out where
the records were,
and hiring a staff,
and an architect,
and all that kind of stuff.
Read that again.
SARA STEFANI: Oh, so.
DAVID FERRIERO:
There was a point
I was trying to make with
[LAUGHS] why we had to go back.
Oh, because, OK.
So then this poor
archivist had the job
of convincing agency
heads that this
is the new way of doing
business and you've
got to give me your records.
And you can imagine
how that went over.
So FDR had to have a cabinet
meeting where he kind of laid
down the law about
this is the way we're
going to do business now.
And the holdout then, and
to some extent still--
not that I want to throw
anyone under the bus--
SARA STEFANI: You're
retired, go ahead.
DAVID FERRIERO: --is
the State Department.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
DAVID FERRIERO: So state
was a unhappy camper
at the very beginning, and
FDR took it upon himself
one evening after hours.
He wrote about this, and I
was in hysterics reading it.
He had himself taken over
to the State Department.
And he describes this long
corridor with filing cabinets.
He wheels himself up
at random and pulls out
a file on Mongolian ponies to
demonstrate that you perhaps
don't need this file
on Mongolian ponies
here in the State Department.
And that's been a
problem ever since.
That some agencies are--
especially, I would say
the intelligence community.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
Yeah, I guess I can
understand this reticence
when they're dealing with
intelligence and classified
documents.
DAVID FERRIERO: So this
Mongolian Pony thing
bothered me.
And so I went to the staff
and said, so can you find it?
Do we have that?
We don't have it.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah
DAVID FERRIERO: So
they still have it.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: Well, should
I submit a FOIA, Freedom
of Information Act request?
DAVID FERRIERO: That
would be fun, yeah.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
How has the relationship between
historians and archivists
changed over the
course of your career?
DAVID FERRIERO: I think they
have better access to records
than they've had before.
I think we're good salespeople
for their product, what
they've written.
I made it a point to do public
programs with any historian who
used the records as a way of
demonstrating the value that we
bring.
And I think the
work that we've been
doing in terms of
digitizing records
has improved the speed with
which they can do research.
SARA STEFANI: And there's
actually a parenthetical
question here, where
the person says, here
at IU we collaborate more
as guardians of the past,
navigating a more political
and less resourced present day.
DAVID FERRIERO: Interesting.
That's a good way
of phrasing it.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
So as Guardians of the past,
navigating a more political
and less resource present day.
Did you feel that
when you were--
DAVID FERRIERO: Definitely
SARA STEFANI: Yeah, archivist?
DAVID FERRIERO: Definitely.
SARA STEFANI: Next
one, can you speak
about archives in the age
of extreme climate change?
Yeah.
How ready are American
archives for dealing
with natural disasters
and other kinds of things?
DAVID FERRIERO: [SIGHS]
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: I'm also
groaning inwardly, actually.
Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO:
It's a tough one.
How prepared are we?
We have all kinds of
guidelines and stuff
for natural disasters, but
when it hits, it's devastating.
And we're so overtaxed in
terms of space for collections
that we make bargains
with the devil
about how we store stuff
and over-stuff places.
And we're talking
about the originals,
and that's why every
digitization effort
is an opportunity to
preserve, to make sure
that the content is
available in another format,
in case there's some kind
of disaster like that.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah, and
also, I would add too
that there's not an equity,
in terms of resources,
to different archives.
The National Archives,
I'm assuming,
has state of the art
facilities and conditions.
Here at IU we have an amazing
auxiliary library facility
that has state of
the art conditions.
But then you've got historical
societies and small archives
in places where they
don't have that,
and it's much more disastrous
when some kind of disaster
hits, or a flood, or--
DAVID FERRIERO: And
they're much more frequent,
those disasters are
much more frequent.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah and they're
happening much more frequently.
So in a profession
that feels like we're
frequently asked to do more
with less, in your career,
how have you advocated
for appropriate staffing
and resource levels to
support archival work?
DAVID FERRIERO: Ooh that's--
from the very beginning,
archives aren't the
most important things
in people's and funders'
minds, administration's minds.
Archives aren't sexy.
Records aren't sexy.
So there has to be
some kind of link
to some initiative that
makes sense for the funding
opportunity.
Private foundations,
if you can demonstrate
that you have something
that's of value
to a private foundation,
at least in my experience,
that sends a signal
to the administration
funders that perhaps--
if there's a requirement
for a matching gift--
that this is an opportunity to
support something and create
something great that
distinguishes the institution.
We're always looking
for something
that would impress the funders,
the administration, that
would raise the profile
of the institution.
SARA STEFANI: Can I
ask a related question.
So I'm assuming that most of
the funding of the National
Archives comes from
Congress from appropriations
bills and et cetera.
Does it cover all of the funding
for the National Archives?
DAVID FERRIERO: No, we have
a private foundation, also,
that raises money.
And all the education
programs, exhibits,
are funded by the
private foundation.
And the Presidential Libraries
have private foundations also.
And they fund, depending
upon the library,
various aspects of the work.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
DAVID FERRIERO:
But the government
work of maintaining
the records, that's
paid for by the government.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
What is the process
for requesting access
to restricted materials?
DAVID FERRIERO: It depends on
what the restricted material is
and what the requirements
are for access.
You can file a FOIA request.
And one of the ways to expedite
that FOIA request, if you're
having trouble with
your FOIA request,
there is a little
known organization
unit within the
National Archives
called the Office of Government
Information Services--
SARA STEFANI: I have
to write that down.
DAVID FERRIERO: --which
is the FOIA ombudsman,
which serves to facilitate
access for the American public.
So if you're having
trouble with the FBI
and having your
request honored, you
can work with my staff
and OTIS to expedite it.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
Can I ask a related question--
DAVID FERRIERO: All of the FOIA
folks in all of the agencies,
and I can tell you this
from personal experience,
are overworked.
There aren't enough people
handling FOIA requests.
It's a huge problem
SARA STEFANI: Yeah, I recently
attended an online forum
on the mandatory
declassification review
process, and they said something
like, the vast majority of FOIA
requests come from only a
very small number of agencies
or people, essentially.
And that they make so many
requests that it clogs up
the system a lot.
And then a related
question to that
too and along the lines
of what I just asked,
is restricted materials but
also classified materials--
DAVID FERRIERO: [GASPS]
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: Because you
said, with sunshine week,
the open government
celebration, you
mentioned that the whole
point of the open government
is transparency and avoiding
unnecessary secrecy.
But I think several people
think of classification
and classified documents as
that unnecessary secrecy.
So who decides if
it's classified
and how do you declassify it?
DAVID FERRIERO:
It's a real issue.
Another little known unit
within the National Archives
is the Information
Security Oversight Office,
which has responsibility
for overseeing
all the classification
activity, monitoring it.
And I can tell you that we
have a huge over classification
problem within the government
in the executive branch.
We now have in the neighborhood
of 2,500 original classifiers.
These are folks who are
authorized to classify.
This is down from about
9,500 when I started in 2009.
So we've narrowed
the number of folks
who have the responsibility
or have the ability.
There are no standards
among those 2,500 people
about what is top
secret and what
might not be classified at all.
Unlike other countries
who have carved out what
it means for each of the
classification areas.
It's coupled with the fact
that the classification process
is pretty tedious.
It's line by line,
determining whether it really
needs to be classified or not.
And it's easier just to
classify the whole damn document
than to do that line by line.
And there was one more piece
of it, of the declassification.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah,
I mean, that is also
DAVID FERRIERO:
Regardless of what
you may have read
in the press, it's
about magic and
waving a magic wand.
There is a
declassification process.
Oh, I know what I was going to
say on the classification side.
Especially in the
intelligence community,
there are multiple agencies
that have equity in a document.
So the classification
may have different levels
of classification within
the same document.
So that relates to
declassification also.
So while the president does have
the authority to declassify,
there is a process
that is followed,
so that the agencies who did
the original classification
are notified--
SARA STEFANI: And can object.
DAVID FERRIERO: --because
that's not the only copy.
Oh, they can object.
[LAUGHS] That's
not the only copy
that sits in the White House.
The agencies that did the
original classification,
they have copies also.
So it's very important
that the agencies
be notified that that
has been declassified.
SARA STEFANI: And if I
understand this correctly,
one document can also
have the State Department
has classified--
DAVID FERRIERO:
Multiple equities.
Yeah, exactly.
SARA STEFANI: --the CIA
has classified part,
the National Security Agency
has done a different--
So and all of
those agencies have
to declassify that particular
portion that they originally
classified.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yep.
SARA STEFANI: Is that?
DAVID FERRIERO: That's it.
That's the way it works.
SARA STEFANI: Yeah, no.
Easy-peasy.
All right.
Your undergraduate degree
is in English literature.
Can you speak to how that
degree or course of study
influenced your career,
if it did at all,
and/or the broader role of
education in the humanities
in preparing people for
careers in information and/or
public service.
DAVID FERRIERO: I was
originally an education major.
I always thought I was going
to teach when I first went
to Northeastern University.
And the education
courses were just so bad
that I dropped out of school.
SARA STEFANI: Oh
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah.
I Joined the Navy,
and when I came back,
I was a liberal arts major and
had very different attitude
toward higher education.
And took courses that
were meaningful to me
and a wide range across
history, and literature,
and political science,
and psychology.
And it was a well rounded
education which, I think,
gave me an important basis
for higher education,
but also thinking about careers.
And at the same time I was
working in my co-op position
as a junior library
assistant in the libraries
at MIT, which exposed me to
all kinds of opportunities
about library work.
So it was the
combination of the two,
I think, that put
me where I am today.
SARA STEFANI: I like that.
So you went from a junior
library position to working--
DAVID FERRIERO: They
knew they had someone
on the hook when I came.
Because I just volunteered
to do anything.
For those of you
who are old enough
to remember filing in the shelf
list, I was allowed to file--
me, a [INAUDIBLE]
student, was allowed
to file in the
Southwest above the rod.
Which means that someone,
a real professional,
came behind me and checked
my work to pull the rod
and drop the cart.
So I wasn't doing
the filing, actually.
SARA STEFANI: Oh, I see.
[LAUGHTER]
But you went from that to MIT,
and Duke, and the New York
Public Library, and the
Archivist of the United States.
DAVID FERRIERO: That's right
SARA STEFANI: Yeah.
DAVID FERRIERO: Hmm.
[LAUGHTER]
SARA STEFANI: Amazing.
How do you view the new trend
of increased book banning
and censorship, and
in what ways could it
affect how our public
records are maintained?
DAVID FERRIERO: It's
a good question.
I think that it's just
a horrible situation.
And I feel badly for
especially school librarians,
who are the targets
of a lot of this--
and some public
librarians, also.
It's hard for me to imagine.
No, I guess it's not hard.
Anything, anything can happen.
In terms of the
way records might
be influenced, the way the
process works is that there
are records managers
in each of the agencies
who are responsible
for overseeing
all the regulations about
creation and maintenance
of records.
So these are career
civil servants.
They report, however,
to their agencies.
It's something that
has bothered me,
and in fact, I made
recommendations
that all of the
records folks should
be reporting to the archives.
Like the model that's used for
the Inspector General community
within the federal government.
They sit in the
agencies, but they
report to a central
Inspector General Agency.
There has been, and I can point
to several examples of bias
in record keeping
in various agencies.
Because of the
presidential appointment
at the head of the Agency hiding
information or withholding
information.
And in some cases
changing information.
So those are things
that would be addressed.
I think if that
records manager was
more comfortable in
reporting it out.
SARA STEFANI: Right, and
had some accountability.
DAVID FERRIERO: Exactly.
SARA STEFANI: And
somebody who could
notice that and correct it.
In terms of preservation,
while it is currently
out of the capacity
for any authority
to store absolutely
everything, do
you think private corporations
have a responsibility
to preserve?
DAVID FERRIERO: Preserve their
own records, or preserve what?
SARA STEFANI: So
I will continue.
DAVID FERRIERO: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
SARA STEFANI: Do you think that
a website such as YouTube, one
full of audio books, news
reports, historical footage,
rare media, tutorials, cultural
touchstones, et cetera,
has a responsibility to
maintain these archives,
as they have inserted
themselves as such
an important feature of the
modern world in other ways?
DAVID FERRIERO: That's
a good question.
SARA STEFANI: That
is a good one.
DAVID FERRIERO: Yeah.
Sure.
Yes.
SARA STEFANI: OK
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID FERRIERO: Let's
make that happen.
SARA STEFANI: OK.
I like it.
I mean, Yeah.
I mean, I'm sort of struck,
and the details are fuzzy,
but I know that there was an
incident not long ago where--
I think it was
maybe in Ukraine--
but somebody had posted
something and then immediately
taken it down.
But it was still in
the internet archives,
and that was the only place that
had whatever this statement was
or this document that was
put up online and immediately
taken down.
So I think this question of,
you have things on YouTube
and whether they have
that responsibility
as part of the record
is an interesting one.
So.
All right--
DAVID FERRIERO: Can I
just share two things
that I brought this
notebook to share.
SARA STEFANI: Oh.
DAVID FERRIERO: This thing
about access to records
is something that--
it wasn't until 1934
that legislation
was signed to create
the National Archives,
but the worry about
access to records
goes way back to
the very beginning.
And I got two letters from
Thomas Jefferson on this topic.
In 1789, he wrote
that, "Whenever
the people are
well informed, they
can be trusted with
their own government.
That whenever things
go so far wrong
as to attract their notice,
they may be relied on
to set them to rights."
And then in 1791.
That was 1789.
In 1791 he said, "Time and
accident are committing
daily havoc on the valuable
historical and state papers
you have--
I'm sorry.
"Time and accident are
committing daily havoc
on the originals deposited
in our public offices.
The late war has done the work
of centuries in this business.
The lost cannot be recovered.
But let us save what remains,
not by vaults and locks which
fence them from the
public eye and use
and consigning them
to the waste of time.
But by such multiplication
of copies as
shall place them beyond
the reach of accident."
Multiplication of copies.
He is the grandfather
of my digitization work.
[LAUGHTER]
Multiplication of copies.
And then Franklin Roosevelt,
when he was dedicating
the Presidential Library said--
he dedicated the
dedication of the library
as an act of faith--
"To bring together the
records of the past
and to house them
into buildings where
they will be preserved for
the use of men and women
in the future.
A nation must believe
in three things.
It must believe in the past.
It must believe in the future.
It must, above all, believe in
the capacity of its own people.
So to learn from the past
that they can gain in judgment
in creating their own future."
So that's what it's all about.
[APPLAUSE]
DINA KELLAMS: That
was so wonderful.
Sarah, thank you so much.
On behalf of the Indiana
University Archives,
and the Indiana
University Libraries,
and all of our
partners, I just want
to thank everybody who
made this event possible.
Particularly the IU
library staff members,
who work behind the scenes
to ensure that everything
runs like a well-oiled machine.
It's amazing to have colleagues
who welcome your ideas
and figure out how they
can help them succeed.
Thank you to Dr. Sara
Stefani for serving
as our very capable and very
informed moderator tonight.
This is how old I am.
I'm ready to go to bed already.
And Thank you all for attending.
And Thank you,
David, for joining us
at Indiana University this week.
The libraries would
like to send you home
with one of our most popular
Indiana University Press books.
However, this will put you
over your weight limit.
So we will mail it to you.
[LAUGHTER]
And with that, we will
conclude today's event.
Thank you, everybody,
for coming today.
[APPLAUSE]